Adding initial User Behavior Insights documentation (#6625)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/user-behavior-insights/index.md

---
layout: default
title: User Behavior Insights
parent: Search relevance
has_children: false
nav_order: 220
---

# User behavior insights

User Behavior Insights, or UBI, is a community plugin for capturing client-side events and queries for the purposes of improving search relevance and user experience. UBI consists of three components:

* An OpenSearch [plugin](https://github.com/o19s/opensearch-ubi) that facilitates the storage of client-side events and queries.

> * A client-side JavaScript library that demonstrates how to capture events and send those events to the OpenSearch UBI plugin.

Reviewer: Could you elaborate on this more? I'm not sure "demonstrates" is the right verb here.

* An OpenSearch Dashboards plugin that provides access to the collected events and queries for analysis. This component is still largely in the design phase.

UBI is currently only supported in OpenSearch 2.12.0.
{: .warning }

## Installing the plugin

> The User Behavior Insights plugin is available for OpenSearch 2.12.0. Run the following command to install the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The User Behavior Insights plugin is available for OpenSearch 2.12.0. To install the plugin, run the following command:
```

> ````bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
````

./bin/opensearch-plugin install \
   "https://github.com/o19s/opensearch-ubi/releases/download/0.0.8/opensearch-ubi-0.0.8-os2.12.0.zip"
````

> After installing the UBI plugin you can find [documentation](https://github.com/o19s/opensearch-ubi/blob/main/documentation.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For plugin APIs and examples, see [OpenSearch User Behavior Insights documentation](https://github.com/o19s/opensearch-ubi/blob/main/documentation.md).
```

> ## Using the plugin

Reviewer: I would remove this heading and the intro sentence and just make the following headings level 2 instead of level 3.

The following steps outline how to get started with the UBI plugin.

### Initializing a UBI store

> A "store" contains the client-side events and the queries. After installing the plugin we need to initialize a store. In the following request we are creating a store called `mystore`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _store_ contains the client-side events and the queries. After installing the plugin, you need to initialize a store. In the following request we are creating a store called `mystore`:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
````

PUT _plugins/ubi/mystore

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
````

A store consists of two OpenSearch indexes whose names are based on the name of the store being created. For the `mystore` store, the names of the indexes are:

* `.mystore_events` - This index contains the client-side events sent to the plugin by the JavaScript library.
* `.mystore_queries` - This index contains the queries that the plugin passively stores.

### Sending events to the store

> With the store initialized, we can now send client-side events to our `mystore` store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the store initialized, you can now send client-side events to our `mystore` store:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

> POST /_plugins/ubi/mystore -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '

Reviewer: ```suggestion
POST /_plugins/ubi/mystore
```

{
  "type": "instant-search",
  "keywords": "laptop",
  "url": "my_url.html",
  "lang": "en-US",
  "session": "npckcy4",
  "channel": "demo-channel"

> }'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
````

### Capturing queries

> The UBI plugin passively stores queries. To illustrate this, we can run a query against our index of products called `ecommerce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UBI plugin passively stores queries. To test it, you can run a query against our index of products called `ecommerce`:
```

> The UBI plugin passively stores queries. To illustrate this, we can run a query against our index of products called `ecommerce`.

Reviewer: Can we replace "our" with something else? Is it the plugin's index? A sample Dashboards index?

> `GET /ecommerce/_search -H "X-ubi-store: awesome"`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
GET /ecommerce/_search -H "X-ubi-store: awesome"
```
{% include copy.html %}
````

Reviewer: Also, would you mind adding a sentence about this plugin to the search relevance index page https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-relevance/index/?

---
layout: default
title: User behavior insights
parent: Search relevance
has_children: false
nav_order: 220
---

# User behavior insights

User Behavior Insights, or UBI, is a community plugin for capturing client-side events and queries for the purposes of improving search relevance and user experience. UBI consists of three components:

* An OpenSearch [plugin](https://github.com/o19s/opensearch-ubi) that facilitates the storage of client-side events and queries.
* A client-side JavaScript library reference implementation that shows how to capture events and send those events to the OpenSearch UBI plugin.
* An OpenSearch Dashboards plugin that provides access to the collected events and queries for analysis. This component is still largely in the design phase.

UBI is currently only supported in OpenSearch 2.12.0.
{: .warning }

## Installing the plugin

The User Behavior Insights plugin is available for OpenSearch 2.12.0. To install the plugin, run the following command:

```bash
./bin/opensearch-plugin install \
   "https://github.com/o19s/opensearch-ubi/releases/download/0.0.8/opensearch-ubi-0.0.8-os2.12.0.zip"

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy.html %}
````
